# tex-checker

Automatic checker of a latex project. Features:

* Given the `main.tex` as the entry tex, recursively do spell-check for all the included tex source files.
    * Color highlight of suspicious words.
    * Interactive mode to gracefully check files one by one.
* Validate the References (`bibitem`s) by searching the bibtex from the internet and comparing with this project's `.bib` file.
    * Validate whether or not the paper title, author names and the publication year are correct.

## Dependencies and Install

* [`aspell`](http://aspell.net/)
* [`ripgrep`](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep)
* [`pandoc`](https://pandoc.org/) (>2.16)
* [`bibtex-dblp`](./bibtex-dblp) (customized version as submodule)
* [`gscholar`](https://github.com/venthur/gscholar)
* python3

```shell
$ bash setup.sh
```

## Usage

Please use `python3 checker.py --help` to see details of the flags.

### Spell Check

* `--tex` specify doing spell check for tex.
* `--root` specify the entry point of the tex.
* `--words` specify a file that contains words which will be skipped when checking.
    * The format of the file is *one word per line* and `##` as comment, see `.me.spellignore` as an example.

```shell
$ python3 checker.py --tex --root <paper.tex> --words <./.me.spellignore> --interactive
```

### Bib Check

Note: already added `sleep(30)` for searching each paper's title, and please avoid abusing.
By default, will use dblp. Google scholar is also supported, yet please be aware of the risk of being banned when regarded as *abuse* (pretty easy to be banned practically).

* `--bibaux` specify doing check for bibtex
* `--root`: note please supply the `aux` file generated by normal building process of a latex project (when generating the pdf), which contains the processed list of `bibcite`.
* `--bib`: supply the `.bib` file of the same latex project.

```shell
# run the test cases
# cd tests; bash test.sh
python3 checker.py --bibaux --root <paper.aux> --bib <paper.bib>
```
